① What I wish to raise for discussion here is the basic social group in our rural society, a group commonly referred to as the “large family.” In *Peasant Life in China*, I called it the “expanded family.” In these terms, the substantive element is “family,” with adjectives such as “small” or “large” added to indicate formal differences between Chinese and Western families that are assumed to be of the same nature. Yet it now seems to me that this is not quite appropriate. A more accurate term for the basic social group in Chinese rural society would be the “small lineage.”

② My reason for proposing this new term is that I wish to explain, in terms of structural principles, the difference between the Chinese and Western “home” or family. The distinction commonly made between the large family and the small family is by no means a matter of size—that is, of the number of persons included in the group—but rather a matter of structure. A household with more than ten children does not thereby constitute a “large family,” while a household of only four persons—parents-in-law, son, and daughter-in-law—cannot for that reason be called a “small family.” Numerically, the former is larger than the latter; structurally, however, the latter is more complex than the former. The principles involved in the two cases are different.

③ In anthropology, the concept of the family has a clear definition: it is a reproductive group constituted by parents and children. “Parents and children” refers to its structure; “reproduction” refers to its function. The parent-child relation is bilateral, referring to both father and mother; children are limited to those born of the spouses. The group is formed for the begetting and rearing of children. In any society in which the task of childbearing and childrearing is borne by individuals, such a group will not be absent. But the reproductive function, considered in relation to each individual family, is of short duration. Once the children have grown up, they leave the care of their parents and go on to conduct their own affairs of begetting and rearing children, generation after generation. The family as a social group is therefore temporary. In this respect, the family is not entirely like ordinary social groups. Schools and states, for example, are not temporary; although in fact they are not permanent either, they are not ad hoc in character, for the functions they perform are long-term. Since the family takes reproduction as its function, it must be prepared, from the very beginning, for its own termination. The purpose of rearing children is precisely to bring the rearing process to an end. I have discussed this point in detail in *The System of Reproduction*.

④ Yet in every culture, the family as a social group is always endowed with functions other than reproduction. Cooperation between husband and wife does not cease simply because the children have grown up. If the family does not change in nature, and remains confined to the group constituted by parents and children, then at the time of its formation, and again after the children have matured, there is a period in which it consists only of the union of husband and wife. Husband and wife do indeed engage in economic, emotional, and sexual cooperation, but the affairs they can undertake are greatly limited. Any undertaking requiring the cooperation of a larger number of people must be carried out by other social groups.

⑤ In the West, the family is a corporate social group. As I have explained above, it has strict corporate boundaries. For this reason, the range of affairs this group can undertake is quite limited; its principal function is the begetting and rearing of children. In Chinese rural society, however, the *jia*—the family or home—does not have strict corporate boundaries. The members of this group may, according to need, expand outward along the differential order of kinship relations. The members composing what I have called this social circle are not limited to parents and children. Structurally, however, the line along which expansion occurs is restricted. The Chinese *jia* expands along a unilineal line: it includes only the paternal side. With few exceptions, a *jia* cannot simultaneously include both daughters-in-law and sons-in-law. Under the patrilineal principle, sons-in-law and married daughters are both people of an outside family. On the father’s side, however, the group may expand very far. A “five generations under one roof” family may include all paternal relatives within five generations.

⑥ A social group organized according to the principle of unilineal kinship has a technical name in anthropology: it is called a clan. Structurally, our *jia* is a clan. But it is not entirely the same as what we ordinarily call a lineage or clan, because what we call a lineage is composed of many *jia*; it is a social group made up of social groups. For this reason, I propose here the term “small lineage.” The small lineage and the large lineage are identical in structural principle; their difference lies in quantity, in size. This is why I prefer not to use “large family,” but instead use “small lineage.” The difference of a single word reveals the structural nature of this social group.

⑦ Structurally, the lineage includes the family; the smallest lineage may even be equivalent to a family. This is because the foundation of kinship structure is the parent-child relation—the triangle of father, mother, and child. The lineage is extended out from the foundation of the family. Yet the family included within the lineage is only one ring within the social circle. One cannot say that it does not exist, but neither can one say that it constitutes an independent unit of its own; it is not a corporate group.

⑧ Differences in form also give rise to changes in nature. Although the lineage includes the function of reproduction, it is not limited to that function. In anthropological terms, the clan is an organization for collective undertakings; when further expanded, it may become a tribe. Clans and tribes possess complex functions—political, economic, religious, and so forth. Our *jia* is precisely of this kind. My hypothesis is that Chinese rural society adopts a differential mode of association, using the ethical relations of kinship to organize social groups and to carry out various undertakings, thereby transforming the basic *jia* into something clan-like. On the one hand, we may say that in Chinese rural society, political, economic, religious, and other functions can all be borne by the lineage. On the other hand, we may also say that in order to carry out so many undertakings, the structure of the *jia* cannot be confined to the small grouping of parents and children; it must be expanded. Moreover, political, economic, religious, and similar affairs all require long-term continuity. This basic social group therefore cannot be temporary in the way the Western family is. The *jia* must be continuous: it must not divide simply because individuals grow up, nor come to an end because individuals die. Thus the nature of the *jia* becomes that of the lineage. The clan is inherently long-lasting, just as our *jia* is. To call this kind of social group a “small lineage” is also to indicate this long-term character, in contrast to the temporariness of the family.

⑨ The Chinese *jia* is an organization for collective undertakings, and its size is determined by the scale of those undertakings. If the undertaking is small, the cooperation of husband and wife may suffice, and the *jia* may be as small as a family. If the undertaking is large, exceeding what husband and wife alone can bear, then brothers, uncles, and other paternal kin may all be gathered into one large *jia*. This explains why the size of the *jia* in our rural society may vary greatly. But no matter how great the difference in size, the structural principle remains consistent: it is a unilineal, patrilineal differential mode of association.

⑩ When a reproductive group is made to bear many other functions, the content of the relationships among its members also changes. In the Western family as a corporate group, husband and wife form the main axis. Together they carry out the affairs of reproduction; children play supporting roles within the group and leave it once they have grown up. For them, political, economic, religious, and other functions are borne by other groups and do not fall within the family’s sphere. Husband and wife become the main axis, and affection between the sexes becomes the force of cohesion. The development of sexual and emotional attachment makes the family the center from which comfort in life is obtained. In my book *The American Character*, I used the term “fortress of life” to describe it.

⑾ In our rural society, the nature of the *jia* differs markedly in this respect. Since our *jia* is a continuous organization for collective undertakings, its main axis lies between father and son, and between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law; it is vertical, not horizontal. Husband and wife become a secondary axis. Although this secondary axis, like the main axis, is not temporary, both axes are nevertheless compelled by the needs of collective undertakings to exclude ordinary sentiment. By “ordinary sentiment” I mean that which stands in contrast to discipline. No undertaking can dispense with considerations of efficiency. To seek efficiency, one must emphasize discipline; discipline excludes the indulgence of private feeling. In the Chinese family there are family rules; between husband and wife there must be mutual respect; women are subject to the standards of the “Three Obediences and Four Virtues”; and between parents and children, responsibility and obedience are emphasized. These are all characteristics of an organization devoted to collective undertakings.