①Western societies are somewhat like the way we collect rice straw to use to cook our food. After harvest, the rice straw is bound into small bundles; several bundles are bound into larger bundles; and these are then stacked together so that they can be carried on shoulder poles. Each piece of straw belongs in a small bundle, which in turn belongs in a larger bundle, which in turn makes up a stack. The separate straws, the separate bundles, and finally the separate stacks all fit together to make up the whole haystack. In this way, the separately bound bundles can be stacked in an orderly way. In Western society, these separate units are organizations. By making an analogy between organizations in Western societies and the composition of haystacks, I want to indicate that in Western society individuals form organizations. Each organization has its own boundaries, which clearly define those people who are members and those who are not. That much is always clear. The people in an organization form a group, and their relationship to the organization is usually the same. If there are differences among group members or distinctions among ranks within the organization, these would have been agreed upon earlier as part of the rules of the organization. In one respect, my analogy is not too appropriate. An individual may join several organizations, but it is impossible for a straw to be in several bundles at the same time. That is the difference between people and straws. My purpose in making the analogy, however, is only to help us see more concretely the pattern of personal relationships in social life, what I will henceforth call the “organizational mode of association” (tuantigeju).
②Families in the West are organizations with distinct boundaries. If a Western friend writes to you saying that he will "bring his family" to visit you, he knows very well who will be coming with him. In China, however, this sentence is very ambiguous. In England and America, a family will include the man, his wife, and his children who have not yet grown up. If he is bringing only his wife, he does not use the word family. In China, we often see the sentence “The whole family will come” (hedi guanglin), but few people can tell what family members should be included in the word di(family).
③In Chinese, the word jia (family) is used in many ways. Jialide (the one at home) can mean one's wife. Jiamen (kinsmen) may be directed at a big group of uncles and nephews. Zijiaren (my own people) may include anyone whom you want to drag into your own circle, and you use it to indicate your intimacy with them. The scope of zijiaren can be expanded or contracted according to the specific time and place. It can be used in a very general way, even to mean that everyone under the sun is a jia (one family).
④Why are nouns for such basic social units so ambiguous in Chinese? In my opinion, the ambiguity indicates the difference between our social structure and that of the West. Our pattern is not like distinct bundles of straws. Rather, it is like the circles that appear on the surface of a lake when a rock is thrown into it. Everyone stands at the center of the circles produced by his or her own social influence. Everyone's circles are interrelated. One touches different circles at different times and places.
⑤In Chinese society, the most important relationship-kinship—is similar to the concentric circles formed when a stone is thrown into a lake. Kinship is a social relationship formed through marriage and reproduction. The networks woven by marriage and reproduction can be extended to embrace countless numbers of people—in the past, present, and future. The same meaning is implied in our saying "Everyone has a cousin three thousand miles away," with three thousand miles indicating the vastness of kinship networks. Despite the vastness, though, each network is like a spider's web in the sense that it centers on oneself. Everyone has this kind of kinship network, but the people covered by one network are not the same as those covered by any other. We all use the same system of notation to identify our relatives, but the only thing we hold in common is the system of notation itself. This system is merely an abstract pattern, a set of categorical concepts. When we use this system to identify concrete relatives, however, each term identifies a different person. In our kinship system, we all have parents, but my parents are not your parents. No two people in the world can have entirely the same set of relatives. Two brothers certainly would have the same parents, but each brother would have his own wife and children. Therefore, the web of social relationships linked with kinship is specific to each person. Each web has a self as its center, and every web has a different center.
⑥In our rural society, this pattern of organization applies not only to kinship but also to spatial relationships. An exception might be the modern baojia system, which is somewhat similar to the Western organizational mode of association (tuantigeju) and is quite incompatible with traditional social structure. In the traditional structure, every family regards its own household as the center and draws a circle around it. This circle is the neighborhood, which is established to facilitate reciprocation in daily life. A family invites the neighbors to its weddings, sends them red-dyed eggs when a new baby is born, and asks for their help in lifting its dead into coffins and carrying the coffins to the cemetery. But a neighborhood is not a fixed group. Instead, it is an area whose size is determined by the power and authority of each center. The neighborhood of a powerful family may expand to the entire village, while a poor family's neighborhood is composed of only two or three nearby families. This pattern is just like the circles of kinship. For instance, in The Dream of the Red Chamber, the story’s main family, the Jia family, was so wealthy and powerful that the family’s compound contained both Lin Daiyu, a cousin on the father's side, and Xue Baochai, a cousin on the mother’s side. Later in the story, the Jia family house, which was called “Jia’s Grand Garden,” contained even more distant relatives, such as Baoqin and Xiuyan. But when the Jia family lost its power and wealth, the family dwindled away into a tiny group. As the saying goes, “When the tree falls, the monkeys scatter.” There is even a more extreme case, that of Su Qin, who, after seeking his fortune for many years, returned home as a total failure. His wife refused to regard him as a husband, and his sister-in-law refused to regard him as her brother-in-law. This pattern of organization in Chinese traditional society has the special quality of elasticity. In the country, families can be very small, but in the wealthy landlord and bureaucratic classes, families can be as big as small kingdoms. These highly elastic social circles, which can be expanded or contracted according to a change in the power of the center, cause the Chinese to be particularly sensitive to changes in human relationships.
⑦In the West, everyone recognizes his or her social boundaries. Even adult children who still live with their parents usually pay for their room and board. People in an organization must fulfill the particular qualifications for membership, and, accordingly, people who no longer possess those qualifications must leave the organization. To Westerners, such requirements show not a lack of human warmth but, rather, a respect for individual rights. Westerners struggle for their rights, but in our society people seek connections in higher places and do things for the sake of friendship.
