①According to the Western pattern, all members in an organization are equivalent, just as all straws in a bundle are alike. This is quite different from the Chinese pattern. Social relationships in China possess a self-centered quality. Like the ripples formed from a stone thrown into a lake, each circle spreading out from the center becomes more distant and at the same time more insignificant. With this pattern, we are faced with the basic characteristic of Chinese social structure, or what the Confucian school has called renlun (human relationships). What is lun? To me, insofar as it is used to describe Chinese social relationships, the term itself signifies the ripplelike effect created from circles of relationships that spread out from the self, an effect that produces a pattern of discrete circles. In the ancient text Shiming(The Interpretation of Names), lun is defined as "the order existing in ripples of water." Pan Guangdan once said, "Word combinations with lun all have similar meanings, which express proper arrangements, classifications, and order."
②Lun stresses differentiation. In the Book of Rites (Liji), the "ten relationships" form a discontinuous classification. Gods and ghosts, monarchs and subjects, fathers and sons, the noble and the base, the intimate and the unconnected, the rewarded and the punished, husbands and wives, public affairs and private affairs, seniors and juniors, and superiors and inferiors—these are principal types of human relationships." Everyone should stay in his place" (bu shi qi lun); thereby, fathers are differentiated from sons, those remote from those close, those who are intimate from those who are not. Lun is order based on classifications. Some may wonder why the concrete social relationships, such as gods and ghosts, monarchs and subjects, fathers and sons, and husbands and wives, are placed in the same category as the abstract positional types, such as the noble and the base, the intimate and the unconnected, the remote and the close, those above and those below. In fact, the basic character of traditional Chinese social structure rests precisely on such hierarchical differentiations as these. Therefore, the key to understanding networks of human relationships is to recognize that such distinctions create the very patterns of Chinese social organization. In the Book of Rites, it is written," Toward the intimate, there is only intimacy; toward the respected, only respect; toward superiors, only deference; between men and women, only differences; these are things that people cannot alter." This means that the framework of social structure is unchangeable; what is changeable is only the use to which the framework is put.
③Confucius paid a lot of attention to the word tui (pushing or extending out), in the sense of ripples expanding out from the center. He first recognized the centrality of the self. Noting that one should "do to others as you would have done to yourself," Confucius explained that one should"control oneself and conform to rituals" (ke ji fu li). By exercising such self-restraint, one cultivates moral character. Attaining control over one's inner self, one then can tui, can extend oneself out into other circles of human relationships. Confucius wrote, "When the inner person is established, the way is born.... A man who is a good son and a dutiful brother will seldom be disposed to quarrel with those in authority over him, and a man who is not disposed to quarrel with those in authority will never be found to disturb the peace and order of the state." The path runs from the self to the family, from the family to the state, and from the state to the whole world (tianxia). In the Doctrine of the Mean (Zhongyong), the five relationships (monarch and subject, father and son, husband and wife, older and younger brothers, and friends) are regarded as passages to the world (tianxia zhi dadao). In such a social structure, the way to go beyond oneself and reach out to the world is to extend oneself circle by circle. Mencius even praised Confucius by saying that he "was good at extending himself."
④In these elastic networks that make up Chinese society, there is always a self at the center of each web. But this notion of the self amounts to egocentrism, not individualism. With individualism, individuals make up organizations in the same way that parts make up the whole. The balance between parts and whole produces a concept of equality: since the position of each individual in an organization is the same, one person cannot encroach on the others. It also produces a concept of constitutionality: an organization cannot deny the rights of an individual; it controls individuals merely on the basis of the partial rights they have willingly handed over. Without these concepts, such organizations as these could not exist. However, in Chinese traditional thought, there is no comparable set of ideas, because, for us, there is only egocentrism. Everything worthwhile rests on an ideology in which the self is central.
⑤This kind of egocentrism is not limited to the actions of someone like Yang Zhu, who was unwilling to pluck out even a single hair in order to benefit the world. It also includes the Confucians. The difference between Yang Zhu and Confucius himself is that Yang Zhu neglected the relative, elastic qualities of egocentrism. He held his self close and would not let it out. Confucius, however, felt that people need to extend beyond themselves in order to achieve their own interests. But even if one extends as far as possible, one's self is still at the center. Confucius wrote, "A ruler who exercises government by means of his virtue is like the North Star, which makes all the other stars surround it." This is, in fact, a very apt simile for describing the Chinese system of organization, that of a pattern of discrete circles, the differential mode of association (chaxugeju). The self is always at the center; so, like the motionless North Star, the self is always surrounded by others who come under the influence of the center. In this regard, Confucius is not like Jesus Christ. Jesus transcends human organizations. He has his Heaven; so he can sacrifice himself for the sake of Heaven, for something beyond human society. Confucius, however, is different.
⑥One of his disciples, Zigong, said to him, "If there were a man who extensively carried out good works for the welfare of the people and really gave benefits to the multitude, what would you say of such a man? Could he be called benevolent (ren)?" The Master said, "It is not a matter of benevolence with such a man. If you must describe him, sage is the right word. Even Yao and Shun would have found it difficult to accomplish as much. A benevolent man, in forming his own moral character, forms the character of others; in enlightening himself, he enlightens others. This is a good method for attaining a moral life, if one is able to judge of others by what is nigh in himself."
⑦Confucian ethics cannot be divorced from the idea of discrete centers fanning out into a weblike network. As Confucius wrote, "What the superior man seeks is in himself; what the petty man seeks is in others." With sentiments such as these, Confucius could not be like Jesus, who so loved everyone under the sun, including his enemies, that he asked God to have mercy on those who killed him. These actions could not have been motivated by egocentrism. What would Confucius have done? When someone asked him, "What about returning good for evil?" Confucius answered, "Why should one return good for evil? Treat evil with justice and return good for good." Confucius could not put aside these kinds of distinctions. But Confucius was certainly not like Yang Zhu, who used his miserly little self to control all situations. Instead, Confucius expanded and contracted the moral scope according to necessity.
