①The basic structure of Chinese rural society is what I have called "a differential mode of association" (chaxugeju). This pattern is composed of distinctive networks spreading out from each individual's personal connections. It is quite different from the modern Western organizational mode of association (tuantigeju). In such a pattern, personal relationships depend on a common structure. People attach themselves to a preexisting structure and then, through that structure, form personal relationships. The concept of the citizen, for example, necessarily follows the development of the state. It seems likely that this type of organizational pattern grew out of primitive tribal formations. In primitive nomadic economies, these patterns were quite prominent. Depending on each other in daily life, tribal peoples could not survive if they spread out among the mountains, with each person living alone. To them, a cohesive organization was a precondition of life. But it is different for those people living in a settled agricultural society, where everyone earns his or her own living from the land and feels the need of companions only under fortuitous, temporary, or special circumstances. To these people, starting relationships with others is a matter of secondary importance. Moreover, they need connections to different degrees on different occasions. They do not seem to need large, continuous organizations. Therefore, their society has adopted a differential mode of association.
②These two patterns of social organization give rise to different types of morality. Morality is the belief that people in a society should abide by certain norms of social behavior. Morality always includes regulations, beliefs, and sanctions, all of which are shaped by the constraints imposed by a social structure. According to a sociological perspective, morality is society's sanction on individual behavior; it makes people conform to established social norms in order to maintain the existence and continuity of the society.
③In the Western pattern, the fundamental concept of morality is built on the relationship between the organization and the individual. An organization is an entity that transcends the individual. Even so, organization itself has no material reality. It is impossible to call material things an organization. Instead, an organization is really a kind of social relationship among human beings. It is a force controlling individual behavior. It is an object on which the composition of individual elements depends. It is a common will that precedes individual members, even as it relies on them for its very existence. The concept of organization can be expressed only by symbols. It is for this reason that the idea of an omnipresent God arose in the West. The relationship between the organization and the individual is signified in the relationship between God and his disciples. God is a judge who rewards and punishes, a keeper of justice who is an omnipotent protector.
④If we want to understand the morality produced by Western organizational patterns, we must never leave out their religious concepts. Religious piety and beliefs are not only the source of Western morality but also the force that supports Western behavioral norms. From the concept of God, who is actually the symbol of universal organization, two important corollaries have emerged. One is that everyone is equal before God, and the other is that God treats everyone with equal justice.
⑤Jesus addressed God as the Father, as everyone's Father. He even publicly rejected his own parents, who gave birth to him and brought him up. To achieve this equality, according to Christian beliefs, Jesus was born of a young virgin; the special and personal relationship between father and son is denied here. This denial is actually not nonsense; it is, instead, a powerful symbol of the public quality of organizations. God represents the universality of public organizations. God is necessarily without a private side. Jesus symbolizes each person within this universal organization. Besides a biological father, each person, therefore, shares a more important heavenly father—that is, an all-encompassing organization. Only by means of this conceptual thinking can the equality among individuals be established. The relationship of each member to the organization is the same. This organization cannot be any individual's private possession. These complex ideas are the very ones that form the basis of the American Declaration of Independence, whose main theme is clearly stated at the very beginning: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights."
⑥But God is not of this world. He symbolizes the invisible entity of universal organization. To carry out the will of organizations, ministers are needed. The term minister is a basic concept in the Western organizational mode of association. The person who carries out God's will is a minister, and the official who executes the power in an organization is also a minister. Both of them are agents. They are not gods themselves. Nor do they somehow embody the organization itself. The difference between God and his ministers, or between the state and its ministers, is never ambiguous. Throughout the history of Christianity, people have time and again tried to communicate with God directly and have opposed the agents on the grounds that they do not truly act at God's behest. Following the same logic, and in fact having grown out of it, the Declaration of Independence further states, "That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. That whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it."
⑦God treats everyone with justice, impartiality, and love. If agents violate these "self-evident truths," they become disqualified. Thus, a concept of individual rights is inherently a part of the morality of the Western mode of organization. People should respect each other's rights. Organizations also should protect individual rights. To prevent the misuse of power by agents in organizations, constitutions have come into being. The concept of constitutions is coordinated with the Western concept of public service. The state may ask for people's service, but it must promise not to infringe on their rights. The state should exercise power only within the scope of justice and love.
⑧I have talked a lot about the morality inherent in Western organizational patterns. My purpose has been to provide a contrast to the characteristics of morality found in the Chinese mode of association. In these self-centered networks of social relationships, the most important feature is certainly ke ji fu li (subdue the self and follow the rites). "From the Son of Heaven down to ordinary people, all must consider the cultivation of the person as the root of everything." This idea is the starting point in the system of morality inherent in Chinese social structure.
⑨Extending out from the self are the social spheres formed by one's personal relationships. Each sphere is sustained by a specific type of social ethic. The process by which the social spheres extend outward takes various paths, but the basic path is through kinship, which includes relations between parents and children and among siblings born of the same parents. The ethical values that match this sphere are filial piety and fraternal duty. "Filial piety and fraternal submission—are they not the foundation of a moral life?" An additional route out from the self is through friends. The ethical values that match friendship are loyalty(zhong) and sincerity (xin). As Confucius said, "When acting on another's behalf, shouldn't you always be loyal? When dealing with friends, shouldn't you always be sincere? ... Make loyalty and sincerity your first principles. Have no friends who do not measure up to yourself." Confucius once concluded, "A young man, when at home, should be filial, and when out in the world should be respectful to his elders. He should be earnest and truthful. He should overflow with love, and cultivate the friendship of the good."
