①The most common group in rural society is generally called the"large family" (da jiating). In Peasant Life in China, I called this group the "expanded family." The important part of these two terms is "family"(jiating). I added the adjectives "large" or "small" to "family" in order to show that, although Chinese and Western families are the same in nature, they are different in form. But now my viewpoint has changed. I think the terminology is no longer appropriate. Instead, a more appropriate term for identifying the most basic unit in Chinese rural society is "small lineage"(xiao jiazu).
②I suggest this new term because I want to clarify the difference in the structural principles of Chinese and Western "families." The difference between the so-called big and small family is not one of size, not one concerning the number of people who can be included, but one of structure. A family with more than ten children does not constitute a "large family," while a family of four people—containing the husband, wife, their son, and their daughter-in-law—should not be called a "small family." The first is larger than the second in number, but the second is more complicated than the first in structure. The two families incorporate different principles.
③In anthropology, there is a clear definition of the concept of family: A family is the procreative group formed by parents and their children. The parent-child relationship indicates the structure, and procreation is the function. This definition suggests a bilateral kinship system, which simultaneously stresses both the father's side and the mother's side of the family. The sons and daughters are the children produced by the couple. The purpose of such a social union is to give birth and raise children. In societies where each individual must bear the task of raising children, there will be many of these procreative groups. But for each of these families, the function of procreation is fulfilled in a relatively short time span. The children quickly grow up and leave their parents' care, and then they, too, take on the tasks of giving birth to and raising their own children. This process continues generation after generation. For this reason, it is in the nature of the family group to be temporary. In this respect, the group composed of a family is not the same as other common types of social groups. Groups such as schools and states are not considered temporary, although in reality they certainly do not continue forever. They are not temporary, because both fulfill functions that last over the long term. But insofar as the family is considered to have only procreation as its function, the family might as well prepare to end shortly after it begins. The purpose of having children ends when they are raised. I have discussed this issue in detail in the book Systems of Reproduction.
④In every culture, however, the family always has other functions besides procreation. The cooperation of a husband and wife does not end when their children grow up. There are periods, at the beginning of the union as well as after the children have grown, when a couple will be by themselves. Between the two, there will be economic, emotional, and sexual cooperation, but what the two of them can accomplish just by themselves will be very limited. To accomplish most things requires the joint effort of a lot of people; therefore, these things must be managed by other kinds of social groups.
⑤In the West, families are groups that have an organizational character. As I explained earlier, Western families have strict boundaries. For this reason, they are able to manage few things beyond raising children. But in Chinese rural society, families do not have strict organizational boundaries. These groups can expand, as needed, by incorporating ever more distant categories of relatives. Those people who make up the family and who form what I have called social circles are not limited to parents and children. Nonetheless, the manner of expansion is limited by social structure. For Chinese families, the route of expansion is patrilineal; it incorporates only those from the father's side of the family. With few exceptions, families do not include daughters-in-law and sons-in-law at the same time. According to the patrilineal principle, married daughters and their husbands, the sons-in-law, are outside the family. But on the paternal side, the family can be expanded to include very distant kin. A family with five generations under the same roof would include all paternal relatives in all five generations.
⑥Anthropologists call the social group organized on the patrilineal or matrilineal kinship principle a "lineage." Structurally, Chinese families are lineages. Lineage (shizu) is not exactly the same as what we commonly refer to as the clan (zu). What we call a clan is really a number of lineages whose members have the same surname. Therefore, I will use the term small lineage to indicate a single-lineage social group. Small and large lineages rest on the same structural principles, but they differ in number and in size. That is why I prefer not to use the term large family to identify a lineage. By using the term small lineage, I emphasize the structural characteristics of the Chinese family and not just the size.
⑦The lineage structure includes the household. The smallest lineage may, in fact, be equal to a nuclear family household. Kinship structure is based on the relationship between parents and children, which is the triangle formed by the father, mother, and child. A lineage expands out from this household family base. But in a lineage the nuclear family is only one ring in a structure of concentric social circles. We cannot say that the nuclear family household does not exist, but we should never think of it as an independent unit, as an organization unto itself.
⑧Differences in social structure produce variations in behavior. Although one of the functions of a lineage is to raise and educate children, it is not limited to that function. From an anthropological perspective, a lineage is a way of organizing activity; when a single lineage joins other lineages in a common frame of action, the group becomes what anthropologists call a "tribe." Lineages and tribes have complex political, economic, and religious functions. This is true for Chinese families as well. It is my hypothesis that Chinese rural society took on a differential mode of association when kinship was successfully used as a medium to create social groups and to manage all kinds of activities. Not until that time did the Chinese family change into a lineage-based structure. This fact is important on two counts. First, in Chinese rural society, lineages carry the responsibility for political, economic, religious, and other functions. Second, in order to handle so much activity, the family structure cannot be limited to simple combinations of parents and children but must expand outward. Moreover, because politics, economy, religion, and social activity all require long-term continuity, the basic social groups certainly cannot be as transitory as Western families. The family must have continuity. It must not break up when the children grow up and must not end when individual members die. Therefore, the family has incorporated the qualities of a lineage, becoming a lineage unto itself. A lineage is longterm, and so are our families. I call this kind of social group a "small lineage," to emphasize its inherent long-term qualities. The Chinese family is the opposite of a temporary household.
⑨The Chinese family is a medium through which all activities are organized. The size of the family depends on the extent of the activity being organized. If an activity is small enough for husband and wife to handle, the family can be as small as a single household; but if the enterprise goes beyond what the couple can manage, then brothers and uncles may all join in to form what now becomes a large family. In Chinese rural society, therefore, the size of families varies a great deal. But no matter how much the size may vary, the structural principle, the patrilineal pattern of differential relationships, always remains the same.
⑩In any society, when the group whose principal task is procreation begins to take on many other functions, changes necessarily occur in the relationships between the members of that group. In the organization of Western families, husband and wife are the main axis, and together they manage the task of raising children. Playing a supporting role, the children leave this organization when they become adults. In the West, political, economic, and religious functions are the responsibility of other organizations and are not included among the tasks of households. Husband and wife are central players around whom everything else moves, and the force that holds them together as a couple is their emotional attachment. The emotional quality of this union has made the family serve as the main source of solace and comfort in Western life. In my book The American Character, I describe the family as a "life fortress."
⑾In Chinese rural society, however, there are obvious differences in the nature of the family. Our families have long-term continuity and serve as means to organize other activities. The main axes of the family are between father and son and between mother and daughter-in-law. These are vertical, not horizontal, relationships. The husband-wife relationship plays a minor role. Nonetheless, the relations between husband and wife, as well as the relations along the main axes of the family, are never temporary. But these family attachments have been stripped of "ordinary emotions" by the demands of a family's practical activities. What I call "ordinary emotions" stand in contrast to discipline. No enterprise can abandon considerations of efficiency. In order to obtain efficiency, one must have strict discipline. But discipline does not tolerate personal feelings. All Chinese families have family rules. Between husband and wife, there should be mutual respect. For women, there are "the three followings and the four virtues." Between father and son, there should be responsibility for the father and obedience for the son. These are the special characteristics of groups designed for enterprise.
