① What I wish to raise for discussion here is the basic social group in our rural society, the group commonly called the “large family.” In *Peasant Life in China* I called it the “expanded family.” In these terms the main word is “family,” with an adjective such as “small” or “large” added to indicate a formal difference between Chinese and Western “families,” which are assumed to be the same in nature. But it now seems to me that this is not quite appropriate. It would be more accurate to call the basic social group in Chinese rural society a “small lineage.”

② My reason for proposing this new term is to explain, in terms of structural principles, the difference between the Chinese and the Western “family.” The difference between what we ordinarily call the large family and the small family is certainly not a matter of size—not a matter of how many people the group contains—but a matter of structure. A household with more than ten children does not thereby constitute a “large family,” while a household consisting only of parents-in-law, son, and daughter-in-law cannot be called a “small family.” Numerically, the former is larger than the latter; structurally, however, the latter is more complex than the former. The principles on which they are organized are different.

③ The concept of family has a definite definition in anthropology: it is a procreative group made up of parents and children. “Parents and children” refers to its structure; “procreative” refers to its function. The parent-child relation is bilateral, referring to both father and mother; the children are limited to those born of the spouses. This group is formed for the bearing and rearing of children. In societies where the task of bearing and rearing children is borne by individuals, such groups will not be lacking. But the procreative function, for each individual family, is short-term. When the children grow up, they leave the care of their parents and go on to manage the procreation and rearing of their own children, generation after generation. The family as a social group is therefore temporary. In this respect, the family is not quite the same as ordinary social groups. Groups such as schools and states are not temporary; though in fact they are not eternal, they are not provisional, because the functions they perform are long-term. Since the family takes procreation as its function, it must from the beginning prepare for its own conclusion. The purpose of rearing children is precisely to bring rearing to an end. I have discussed this point in detail in my book *The System of Reproduction*.

④ Yet in every culture, the family group is always endowed with functions other than procreation. Cooperation between husband and wife does not end simply because the children have grown up. If the family does not change its nature, and remains limited to a group made up of parents and children, then at the beginning of its formation and again after the children have grown up, there is a period in which it is only the union of husband and wife. To be sure, husband and wife carry on economic, emotional, and sexual cooperation; but the affairs they can conduct are greatly limited. Anything requiring the cooperation of a larger number of people must be carried on by other social groups.

⑤ In the West, the family is a corporate social group. As I have explained above, it has strict group boundaries. For this reason, the affairs this group can conduct are also few, the main one being the bearing and rearing of children. But in Chinese rural society, the *chia* has no strict corporate boundaries. The members of this group may, according to need, extend outward along the differential sequence of kinship relations. The members who make up what I call this social circle are not limited to parents and children. Yet the line along which it expands is structurally restricted. The Chinese *chia* expands along a unilineal path; that is, it includes only the father’s side. With few exceptions, the *chia* cannot include both daughters-in-law and sons-in-law. Under the patrilineal principle, sons-in-law and married daughters are people of another family. On the father’s side, however, it may expand very far: a household of five generations under one roof may include all patrilineal relatives within five generations.

⑥ A social group organized according to the principle of unilineal kinship has a special name in anthropology: it is called a clan. Structurally, our *chia* is a clan. But it is not exactly the same as what we ordinarily call a *zu*, or lineage, because what we call a *zu* is composed of many *chia*; it is a social group made up of social groups. For this reason I propose here the term “small lineage.” The small lineage and the large lineage are the same in structural principle; what differs is quantity, or size. This is why I do not wish to use the term “large family,” but instead use “small lineage.” The difference of a single word indicates the structural nature of this social group.

⑦ In structure, the lineage includes the family; the smallest lineage may even be equal to a family. This is because the basis of kinship structure is the parent-child relation, the triangle of father, mother, and child. The lineage is extended out from the foundation of the family. But the family included within the lineage is only one ring in the social circle. One cannot say that it does not exist, but neither can one say that it forms an independent unit of its own; it is not a corporate group.

⑧ Differences in form also give rise to changes in nature. Although the lineage includes the function of procreation, it is not limited to that function. In anthropological terms, a clan is an organization for carrying on affairs; when further expanded, it may become a tribe. Clans and tribes possess complex political, economic, religious, and other functions. Our *chia* is precisely like this. My hypothesis is that Chinese rural society adopted the differential mode of association, using the moral order of kinship to organize social groups and carry on various enterprises, thereby making the basic *chia* clan-like in nature. On the one hand, we may say that in Chinese rural society, political, economic, religious, and other functions can all be borne by the lineage. On the other hand, we may also say that, in order to carry on these many affairs, the structure of the *chia* cannot be limited to the small combination of parents and children; it must be expanded. Moreover, political, economic, and religious affairs all require long-term continuity. This basic social group cannot be temporary like the Western family. The *chia* must be continuous; it must not divide when individuals grow up, nor end when individuals die. Thus the nature of the *chia* becomes that of a lineage. A clan is by nature long-lasting, just as our *chia* is. To call this kind of social group a small lineage also expresses this long-term quality, in contrast to the temporary nature of the family.

⑨ The Chinese *chia* is an organization for carrying on enterprises, and its size is determined by the scale of the enterprise. If the enterprise is small, the cooperation of husband and wife is sufficient to manage it, and the *chia* may be as small as a family. If the enterprise is large, exceeding what husband and wife can bear, then brothers, uncles, and other patrilineal kin may all gather into one large *chia*. This explains why the size of the *chia* in our rural society may vary greatly. But no matter how great the difference in size, the structural principle remains consistent: a unilineal, patrilineal differential mode of association.

⑩ When a procreative group is made to bear many other functions, the content of the relations among its members also changes. In the Western family group, husband and wife form the main axis. Husband and wife jointly carry on the work of procreation; children play a supporting role in this group, and when they grow up they leave it. Political, economic, religious, and other functions are borne by other groups and do not fall within the family’s sphere. Husband and wife therefore become the main axis, and the emotional bond between the sexes is the force that holds the family together. The development of sexual and emotional affection makes their family the center for obtaining comfort in life. In my book *The American Character*, I once used the phrase “fortress of life” to describe it.

⑪ In our rural society, the nature of the *chia* differs markedly in this respect. Since our *chia* is a continuous enterprise group, its main axis lies between father and son, and between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law; it is vertical, not horizontal. Husband and wife become a secondary axis. Although this secondary axis, like the main axis, is not temporary, both axes are, by the needs of the enterprise, made to exclude ordinary feelings. By “ordinary feelings” I mean feelings as opposed to discipline. No enterprise can escape considerations of efficiency. To seek efficiency, one must emphasize discipline; discipline excludes the indulgence of private affection. In the Chinese family there is family law and discipline; between husband and wife there must be mutual respect; women are held to the standards of the “Three Obediences and Four Virtues”; between parents and children, responsibility and obedience are emphasized. These are all characteristics of an enterprise group.