① What I wish to put forward for discussion here is the basic social group in our rural society, the group commonly called the “large family.” In *Peasant Life in China* I called it the “Expanded Family.” The core of these terms is “family”: by adding the adjective “small” or “large” to “family,” they indicate formal differences between Chinese and Western “families” that are assumed to be the same in nature. But it now seems to me that this is not appropriate. A more accurate term for the basic social group in Chinese rural society would be the “small lineage.”

② My reason for proposing this new term is that I wish to explain the distinction between the Chinese and Western Chia from the standpoint of structural principles. The difference between what we commonly call the large family and the small family is certainly not one of size, nor of the number of persons included in the group, but one of structure. A family with more than ten children does not thereby meet the conditions for being a “large family,” while a family consisting only of parents-in-law, son, and daughter-in-law—four persons in all—cannot be called a “small family.” Numerically, the former is larger than the latter; structurally, however, the latter is more complex than the former. The principles on which the two are based are different.

③ In anthropology the concept of family has a definite definition: it is a procreative group formed by parents and children. “Parents and children” refers to its structure; “procreation” refers to its function. The parent-child relation is bilateral, referring to both father and mother; the children are limited to those born of the married pair. This group is joined together for the birth and rearing of children. In societies where the task of bearing and rearing children is borne by individuals, such groups cannot be absent. But the procreative function, in the case of each particular family, is short-term. When children grow up, they leave the nurture of their parents and go off to manage their own affairs of bearing and rearing children, generation after generation. For this reason, the family as a social group is temporary. In this respect, the family is not entirely like ordinary social groups. Schools and states are not temporary; although in fact they are not permanent either, they are nevertheless not provisional, because the functions they possess are long-term. Since the family takes procreation as its function, it must from the beginning prepare for its own termination. The purpose of rearing children is precisely to end the need for rearing them. I have discussed this point in detail in my book *The System of Reproduction*.

④ In any culture, however, the family is always endowed with functions other than procreation. Cooperation between husband and wife does not end when the children grow up. If the family does not change its nature, and remains limited to the group formed by parents and children, then at the beginning of its formation, and again after the children have grown up, there is a period in which it is simply the union of husband and wife. Husband and wife of course carry on economic, emotional, and sexual cooperation, but the affairs they can conduct are greatly limited. Any undertaking requiring the cooperation of a larger number of people must be conducted by other social groups.

⑤ In the West, the family is a corporate social group; as I have already explained above, it has strict corporate boundaries. For this reason, the affairs that this group can conduct are few, chiefly the bearing and rearing of children. But in Chinese rural society, the Chia has no strict corporate boundary. The members of this group can, according to need, expand outward along the differential order of kinship. The members who constitute what I call the social circle are not limited to parents and children. Structurally, however, the line of expansion is restricted. The line along which the Chinese Chia expands is unilineal: it includes only the paternal side. With few exceptions, the Chia cannot include both daughters-in-law and sons-in-law. Under the patrilineal principle, the son-in-law and the married daughter are both members of an outside family. On the father’s side, however, expansion can go very far. A Chia of five generations under one roof can include all paternal relatives within five generations.

⑥ A social group organized according to the principle of unilineal kinship has a technical name in anthropology: it is called a clan. Structurally, our Chia is a clan. But it is not exactly the same as what we ordinarily call a lineage, because what we call a lineage is made up of many Chia; it is a social group of social groups. Therefore I propose here the term “small lineage.” The small lineage and the large lineage are the same in structural principle; what differs is quantity or size. This is why I do not wish to use the term “large family,” but instead use “small lineage.” The difference of a single word reveals the structural nature of this social group.

⑦ Structurally, the lineage includes the family; the smallest lineage can even be equal to a family. This is because the basis of kinship structure is the parent-child relation, the triangle of father, mother, and child. The lineage is extended outward from the foundation of the family. But the family included within the lineage is only one ring within the social circle. One cannot say that it does not exist, but neither can one say that it forms an independent unit by itself; it is not a corporate group.

⑧ Differences in form also bring about changes in nature. Although the lineage includes the function of procreation, it is not limited to that function. In anthropological terms, the clan is an organization for undertakings; when further expanded, it can become a tribe. Clans and tribes possess complex political, economic, religious, and other functions. Our Chia is precisely like this. My hypothesis is that Chinese rural society has adopted the differential mode of association, using the ethical norms of kinship to organize social groups and to conduct various undertakings, thereby making the basic Chia clan-like in character. On the one hand, we may say that in Chinese rural society, political, economic, religious, and other functions can all be borne by the lineage. On the other hand, we may also say that, in order to conduct so many undertakings, the structure of the Chia cannot be limited to the small group of parents and children, but must be enlarged. Moreover, political, economic, religious, and similar affairs all require long-term continuity; this basic social group cannot be temporary, as the Western family is. The Chia must be continuous: it does not split apart when an individual grows up, nor does it come to an end when an individual dies. Thus the nature of the Chia becomes that of the lineage. The clan is by nature long-term, just as our Chia is. To call this kind of social group a small lineage also indicates this long-term quality, in contrast to the temporary nature of the family.

⑨ The Chinese Chia is an organization for undertakings, and its size is determined by the scale of those undertakings. If the undertaking is small, the cooperation of husband and wife is sufficient to handle it, and the Chia may be as small as a family. If the undertaking is large, exceeding what husband and wife alone can bear, then brothers, paternal uncles, and others may all gather into one large Chia. This explains why the size of the Chia in our rural society can vary so greatly. But no matter how great the difference in size, the structural principle remains consistent: a unilineal differential mode of association.

⑩ When a procreative group is made to bear many other functions, the content of the relations among the members of this group also changes. In the Western family as a corporate group, husband and wife form the main axis. Husband and wife jointly conduct the affairs of procreation; children play a secondary role in this group, and when they grow up they leave it. For them, political, economic, religious, and other functions are borne by other groups and do not fall within the family’s sphere. Husband and wife become the main axis, and affection between the sexes is the force of cohesion. The development of this affection makes their family the center from which they obtain comfort in life. In my book *The American Character*, I used the term “fortress of life” to describe it.

⑾ In our rural society, the nature of the Chia shows a marked difference in this respect. Since our Chia is a continuous social group for undertakings, its main axes lie between father and son, and between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law; they are vertical, not horizontal. Husband and wife become a secondary axis. Although this secondary axis, like the main axes, is not temporary, both kinds of axis are, because of the needs of the undertaking, deprived of ordinary sentiment. By “ordinary sentiment” I mean sentiment as contrasted with discipline. No undertaking can be separated from considerations of efficiency. To seek efficiency, one must stress discipline; discipline excludes the tolerance of private feeling. In the Chinese Chia there is family law; between husband and wife there must be mutual respect; women are held to the standards of the “three obediences and four virtues”; between parents and children, responsibility and obedience are emphasized. These are all characteristics of a social group organized for undertakings.