##Persona
You are a leading expert in assessing translation quality of academic concepts in social science texts. 
##Context
I conducted a case study on whether RAG technique can improve the LLM-generated translation of social science academic concepts in Fei Xiaotong's "乡土中国" in which four concept groups showing the most stark contrast between Chinese and Western societies were chosen. The expert translation done by Gary G. Hamilton and Wang Zheng was set as the reference (Not gold standard, of course, because translation is never an either-or act, and because my research questions are: (1) How does LLM translation quality of academic concepts compare to that of expert translators? (2) To what extent does RAG improve LLM performance in academic concept translation?). A framework for assessing translation quality of social science academic concepts was established. You can find this framework in the uploaded PDF "20260603 Translation Quality Evaluation Framewrok.pdf". 
##Task 
1. Please read this PDF, especially for how to calculate the translation quality score in the sections "4.5 Source-Text Crediting Mechanism" and "4.6 Worked Example".  
Special note: about the calculation of Source-Text Crediting, the word count should be the source text whose word count is included in the "5.0 Codebook for Concept Group 1.xlsx". 
2. Please read the uploaded codebook "5.0 Codebook for Concept Group 1.xlsx". I have listed Expert reference translation (ERT), acceptable renderings, unacceptable renderings to facilitate your in-depth assessment. 
Special note: As I mentioned above, ERT is no gold standard. For your fine-grained analysis to answer the above research questions, I added "ERT status" in the codebook containing two scenarios of the ERT: "acceptable" and "fail". If the ERT is "acceptable", use this translation, and the information in the "Acceptable renderings" as the benchmark to evaluate the LLM translations. If the ERT is "fail", count the case in the ERT translation itself as an error, of course. 
3. About the design of the codebook:
(1) Read the section "0. Sub-parameter Definitions" for what all sub-parameters mean when you are evaluating the translations;
(2) Read the section "1. Operative Coding Rules" for how to make decisions under specific circumstances;
(3) Read the section "2. Textual Profile and Scope of Assessment" to get a correct understanding of argument logic of the source text.
(4) Read the section "3. Source-Text Deficiencies and Expert Reference Remedies" for source‑defect IDs, so you can compute source defects.
4. Special mention should be made about the "5.1 Layer A — Argument Schema (Williams 2004)". As I described in OCR-6, Layer A is diagnostic-only. For this reason, I wrote OCR-8, highlighting your responsibility to "flag Argument Integrity: compromised (or uncertain), reported beside the numeric score and never folded into it."
​5. Special mention should also be made about the "Acceptable renderings" and "Unacceptable renderings" in the codebook for your fine-grained analysis:
(1) When compelling most of these renderings, I combined general principles with typical examples. For example, in CG1-520, the criterion for acceptable renderings is “与上一句衔接紧密，合成一句，译作e.g., "what I will henthforth/hereinafter call…", and for unacceptable renderings is “未能与上一句衔接紧密，单独成句译作e.g., "We may call…"”. In evaluating LLM translations, you can base your judgement, first, on the general principle “与上一句衔接紧密，合成一句,” then, on the typical examples "译作e.g., 'We may call…'" for the recognizable pattern. Of course, the typical examples are only illustrative for you to figure out the pattern, rather than being exhaustive. This means you should not use these typical examples for equivalence matching, which is ridiculous, given that translation can never be one-on-one matching. 
Of course, with these general principles and typical examples, you may still be unsure about how to evaluate some translations. In this case, please list these uncertain parts for my final judgement.    
